Indexes API (#132)
meilisearch/specifications: text/0132-indexes-api.md

|-------------------------------|-----------------|----------|
| [uid](#311-uid)               | String          | True     |
| [name](#312-name)             | String          | False    |
| [primaryKey](#313-primaryKey) | String / `null` | False    |
| [createdAt](#314-createdAt)   | String          | False    |
| [updatedAt](#315-updatedAt)   | String          | False    |

#### 3.1.1. `uid`

- Type: String
- Required: True

A unique identifier for the index.

This field is mandatory when creating an index and cannot be changed afterwards.

#### 3.1.2. `name`

- Type: String
- Required: False

This field is automatically generated by the engine when creating an index and is equal to the value of `uid`.

It is not possible to fill it in when creating or updating an index.

#### 3.1.3. `primaryKey`

- Type: String
- Required: False
- Default: `null`

Allows to bypass the auto-inference mechanism of the document identifiers.

By default, the `primaryKey` will be chosen by the auto-inference mechanism by the engine when a first document is indexed.

Specifying this field tells the engine to use the document attribute specified in `primaryKey` and bypasses this mechanism.

> When the index is empty, it is possible to modify the `primaryKey`.

Reviewer: I think it is important yes since I'm always answering to users asking how to change their primary key that they `cannot change it whenever they set it or once they added one document`. 

I think the doc should be updated on the matter

> When the index is empty, it is possible to modify the `primaryKey`.

Reviewer: @eskombro is maybe also not aware this behavior changed. It may (or not in which case sorry) be of interest to him.

> When the index is empty, it is possible to modify the `primaryKey`.

Reviewer 2: Documentation issue created: https://github.com/meilisearch/documentation/issues/1574

#### 3.1.4. `createdAt`

- Type: String
- Required: False

The creation date time when the index has been created.

Automatically generated by the engine at the creation of an index.

> Represented with the `RFC 3339` format.

Author: In reality, this is an RFC 3339 format that shares a common pattern with the ISO 8601. 🤓

> Represented with the `RFC 3339` format.

Reviewer: An RFC is not just something that provides the specification on a specific subject? It describes a format, it is not a format. I don't know if that makes sense

Fetch an index of a Meilisearch instance.

##### 3.2.2.1. Response Definition

| Field                    | Type                     | Required |
|--------------------------|--------------------------|----------|
| `uid`                    | String                   | true     |
| `name`                   | String                   | true     |
| `primaryKey`             | String / `null`          | true     |
| `createdAt`              | String                   | true     |
| `updatedAt`              | String                   | true     |

The `name` field takes the value of given `uid`.

##### 3.2.2.2. Errors

- 🔴 If the requested `index_uid` does not exist, the API returns an [index_not_found](0061-error-format-and-definitions.md#index_not_found) error.

#### 3.2.3. `POST` - `indexes`

Create an index.

##### 3.2.3.1. Request Payload Definition

| Field                    | Type                     | Required |
|--------------------------|--------------------------|----------|
| `uid`                    | String                   | true     |
| `primaryKey`             | String / `null`          | false    |

##### 3.2.3.2. Response Definition

> When the request is successful, Meilisearch returns the HTTP code `202 Accepted`. The response's content is the summarized representation of the received asynchronous task.

Author: There is a link to give more details about that at line 136. It avoid to copy/paste huge details on each route returning a 202

> When the request is successful, Meilisearch returns the HTTP code `202 Accepted`. The response's content is the summarized representation of the received asynchronous task.

Reviewer: > The response's content is the summarized representation

Do you mean something like this ? 

> The following response content is an example of a returned tasks object on asynchronous routes.

See [Summarized `task` Object for `202 Accepted`](0060-tasks-api.md#summarized-task-object-for-202-accepted).

##### 3.2.3.3. Errors

- 🔴 Omitting Content-Type header returns a [missing_content_type](0061-error-format-and-definitions.md#missing_content_type) error.
- 🔴 Sending an empty Content-Type returns an [invalid_content_type](0061-error-format-and-definitions.md#invalid_content_type) error.
- 🔴 Sending a different Content-Type than `application/json` returns an [invalid_content_type](0061-error-format-and-definitions.md#invalid_content_type) error.
- 🔴 Sending an empty payload returns a [missing_payload](0061-error-format-and-definitions.md#missing_payload) error.
- 🔴 Sending an invalid JSON payload returns a [malformed_payload](0061-error-format-and-definitions.md#malformed_payload) error.
- 🔴 Sending a value with a different type than `String` for `uid` will return a [bad_request](0061-error-format-and-definitions.md#bad_request) error.
- 🔴 Sending an invalid `uid` returns an [invalid_index_uid](0061-error-format-and-definitions.md#invalid_index_uid) error.

> - 🔴 Sending a value with a different type than `String` or `null` for `primaryKey` will return a [bad_request](0061-error-format-and-definitions.md#bad_request) error.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- 🔴 Sending a value with a different type than `string` or `null` for `primaryKey` will return a [bad_request](0061-error-format-and-definitions.md#bad_request) error.
```

###### 3.2.3.3.1. Async Errors

> - 🔴 When Meilisearch is secured, if the API Key do not have the `indexes.create` action defined, the API returns an [index_not_found](0061-error-format-and-definitions.md#index_not_found) error in the related asynchronous `task` resource. See [3.2.2.2. Response Definition](#3222-response-definition).

Reviewer: `When Meilisearch is secured,` how do you know when meilisearch is secured?

> - 🔴 Sending a `uid` that already exists returns an [index_already_exists](0061-error-format-and-definitions.md#index_already_exists) error.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- 🔴 Creating an index with an `uid` that already exists returns an [index_already_exists](0061-error-format-and-definitions.md#index_already_exists) error.
```

Reviewer: But I see that you use `Sending` everywhere so feel free to ignore!

#### 3.2.4. `PUT` - `indexes/:index_uid`

> Update an index.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Updates an index.
```

> The `primaryKey` field can be updated when the index is empty. If the `primaryKey` is not defined, the indexing process will try to auto-infer the `primaryKey` by searching the first attribute containing `id` in the first document payload to index.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `primaryKey` field can be updated when the index is empty and when no primaryKey has been defined before. If the `primaryKey` is not defined, the indexing process will try to auto-infer the `primaryKey` by searching the first attribute containing `id` in the first document payload to index.
```

##### 3.2.4.3. Errors

- 🔴 Omitting Content-Type header returns a [missing_content_type](0061-error-format-and-definitions.md#missing_content_type) error.
- 🔴 Sending an empty Content-Type returns an [invalid_content_type](0061-error-format-and-definitions.md#invalid_content_type) error.
- 🔴 Sending a different Content-Type than `application/json` returns an [invalid_content_type](0061-error-format-and-definitions.md#invalid_content_type) error.
- 🔴 Sending an empty payload returns a [missing_payload](0061-error-format-and-definitions.md#missing_payload) error.
- 🔴 Sending an invalid JSON payload returns a [malformed_payload](0061-error-format-and-definitions.md#malformed_payload) error.

###### 3.2.4.3.1. Async Errors

- 🔴 When updating the `primaryKey`, if the previous `primaryKey` value has already been used for a document, the API returns an [index_primary_key_already_exists](0061-error-format-and-definitions.md#index_primary_key_already_exists) error.
- 🔴 If the requested `index_uid` does not exist, the API returns an [index_not_found](0061-error-format-and-definitions.md#index_not_found) error.

#### 3.2.5. `DELETE` - `indexes/:index_uid`

> Delete an index.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Deletes an index.
```

##### 3.2.4.1. Response Definition

When the request is successful, Meilisearch returns the HTTP code `202 Accepted`. The response's content is the summarized representation of the received asynchronous task.

See [Summarized `task` Object for `202 Accepted`](0060-tasks-api.md#summarized-task-object-for-202-accepted).

##### 3.2.4.2. Errors

###### 3.2.4.2.1 Async Errors

- 🔴 If the requested `index_uid` does not exist, the API returns an [index_not_found](0061-error-format-and-definitions.md#index_not_found) error.

#### 3.2.6. General Errors

> These errors apply to all endpoints described here.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following errors apply to all endpoints:
```

##### 3.2.6.1 Auth Errors

The auth layer can return the following errors if Meilisearch is secured (a master-key is defined).

- 🔴 Accessing this route without the `Authorization` header returns a [missing_authorization_header](0061-error-format-and-definitions.md#missing_authorization_header) error.

> - 🔴 Accessing this route with a key that does not have permissions (i.e. other than the master-key) returns an [invalid_api_key](0061-error-format-and-definitions.md#invalid_api_key) error.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- 🔴 Accessing this route with a key that does not have the required permissions (i.e. other than the master-key) returns an [invalid_api_key](0061-error-format-and-definitions.md#invalid_api_key) error.
```
